---
layout: post
title: "fireside chat: kitchen vs. table"
date:   2014-06-07 15:28:00
---

***"It only works if everyone who walks in that door says, 'This is my program, this is my nine weeks, and I'm going to make them amazing...'"***

This quote really summed up Shereef's talk for me. DBC seems like something you have to jump into, wholeheartedly, and invest everything in. From what Shereef said, it takes everyone taking that plunge together to make it really magic. Mainly, like all things worth earning, it's an experience that has to be earned - with time, energy, and a spark for creating with others. Watching this video made me excited to be a part of something like this - a community of individuals each owning his or her experiences and working to make it fantastic. I'm coming here to enter a field where I hope to be challenged continually - creatively, technically, and interpersonally - so this environment sounds like a great way to start building the skills we all need for our futures as "world-class beginners". So I see myself engaging wholeheartedly in this; I'm going to have to put away the introversion that I often let hold me back in new environments and any hesitancy or lack of confidence re: the Imposter Syndrome (which is scary accurate, for many of us I bet).

This type of learning environment seems so different to me than college. Having just graduated, sometimes I feel like the four years just happened - time passed, I went to class, and I graduated (maybe that's just a function of getting older, though, time moving faster and all that?). Though this might not be entirely fair to my college experience, which was overall pretty awesome, I feel like Shereef articulated, upfront, what a lot of colleges sort of imply or never say so clearly: that our educations are what we make it, that we have to all own them to make it a better experience for everyone, that it's not just a product that we buy but we make it ourselves. Colleges don't say that there are no promises about outcomes - that collge does not necessarily equal a job, unlike Shereef. And what Shereef said puts the responsibility and therefore the agency with us, giving us control over what we do with our time with DBC. So while I might not be used to this kind of environment, which does make me nervous (I definitely recognized the Restaurant mentality in myself! It's so scary to accept that there aren't automatic outcomes for inputs of time or money), I am ready for an environment like this that wakes me up and puts me in charge of changing my life.

(I did feel a little better when Shereef said that people would burn out if they worked at the rate they do at DBC at a job. Despite the "Bootcamp" in the name, I was starting to get afraid that by trying to become a web developer, I was signing myself up for a lifetime of 5 hours of sleep a night - and I need more than that to not be an angry zombie.)