---
layout: post
title: "blogging on blogging"
date:   2014-08-03 21:51:00
---
Blogging throughout phase 0 has been an awesome way to think about various concepts in programming with a different side of my brain, whether it's putting the technical into words or reflecting on how I think, deal with conflict, and ask questions, among other topics. As an English major in college, I've loved being able to think through all of this stuff through writing about it. 

But more than just how I felt writing posts, being able to read others' posts has been invaluable. Because we each blogged throughout phase 0, I think we were able to learn more technically and culturally - and it probably helped all of us feel like we weren't alone in anything, whether it was how we did or didn't understand something, how we'd all had some moment of conflict that we wished we'd dealt with better, or our fears about Dev Bootcamp. Blogging gave us all to get to know each other before we meet in person, a kind of remote breaking of the ice so we can jump straight into the experience at DBC!

The final challenge of making my blog more professional looking... well, it's still a work in progress. I'm excited to continue learning how to improve my site and how to play with Jekyll to create a new design. My old design had gotten so cluttered, especially with my CSS (so many random ids and classes that probably weren't even being implemented in good practice), that I decided to scrap it and start all over with this site. My goal is to have a navbar at the top with the options: cultural, technical, and about - though as phase 1 starts, I might change those options to be the phases instead. I want clicking on those options to jump down the page to a horizontal image or colored background containing the content corresponding to the link. I've even thought about somehow having the cultural/technical sections have options to click arrows going right and left to scroll through previews of each post - I'll have to learn some jQuery to get that interactivity though. I'm thinking that my color scheme will be black, cream, mint, and some orange-ish color, and I want to play around with fonts and shapes too. 

So moving onto Jekyll was a nice way for me to start over on blogging, with a fresh start away from the messiness of my older blog (though I still need to transition all of my posts so that they're all in the same markdown format; currently some are in Markdown and others are in HTML). I'm excited to keep learning more so that I can add new features and play with the theme as I hopefully keep blogging throughout DBC!