---
layout: post
title: "diversity in tech"
date:   2014-06-27 9:56:00
---

<p>For some, the word 'diversity' or the idea of institutionalized goals to hire more minorities/women is a discrimination of its own. Reading a few comments on a SFGate article, "The simple solution to increasing diversity at tech giants," I noticed that many readers pointed out a supply-and-demand problem - there just aren't enough skilled minorities or women in tech, so why hire someone underqualified when you could hire the much better qualified white male?
</p>
<p>Of course, comments like these don't seem take a step back away from their indignation at reverse discrimination to address why it might be an issue that the tech world is so dominated by white and Asian men. Clearly, the most qualified candidate should be hired. But why, then, is the pool of the qualified so lacking in diversity? Could it be that the interest in tech is cultivated and encouraged in certain groups, however subtly, while fewer opportunities are given to others? Could it be that the cultural conversation around the tech job has become so steeped in its ways that paths don't even seem open to others?</p>
<p>Recently I saw <a class="postlink" href="http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2014/06/24/verizon-ad-tells-parents-to-encourage-girls_n_5526236.html">this Verizon ad</a> that focused upon how female interest in STEM areas declines between childhood and adulthood, questioning why that might be. While the small discouragements that pile on one another could be argued against by someone saying, 'I always treat by boys and girls the same,' or 'we don't do this in our home,' these issues don't disappear just because you, personally, don't contribute to them or see them. Why are there fewer skilled women in the tech industry? It goes way back to stereotypes about that <a class="postlink" href="https://www.google.com/?gws_rd=ssl#q=boys+better+at+math">boys are better at math</a>; as archaic as this view seems to most of us, each one of these articles, published within the last couple of years, is still responding to the 'myth' that there is a biological basis in boys being superior than girls in math. If those ideas were gone from our cultural consciousness, why would articles continue to reference them? So though many of us acknowledge that <i>we</i> don't share these views, the simple truth is that many people do - and it is the subtle and sinister influence of those opinions that could cause women and minorities to start really believeing that they can't do math or science or any of the other STEM fields that are so predominantly white or Asian male.</p>
<p>I've mainly focused on women in this post because, as a half-Indian woman who went to a women's college, I feel like I can speak more to that side of the issue than minority experiences with STEM. But now that we've thought about the stereotypes, the subtle encouragements or discouragements from childhood, the <a class="postlink" href="http://www.edchange.org/multicultural/papers/genderbias.html">teachers who give more speaking time in classrooms to boys than girls</a>, <a class="postlink" href="http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/28/opinion/kapor-tech-diversity/">the lack of support in communities for certain interests</a> - is the answer to 'why is there such a lack of diversity in tech' a simple one of supply and demand? This last opinion article from CNN, written by Mitchell Kapor, I linked to points out that tech companies can only benefit from increasing diversity:<br><br><i>This is a practical demand as much as a moral one. Underrepresented populations are uniquely prepared to do what the tech sector claims to do best: innovate. Look at the app store on any smartphone. There are thousands of programs to edit a photo or help you check the weather, but far fewer that exist to close the gaps in our society. In Silicon Valley, we like to say that every problem is a potential opportunity. But it takes a diversity of backgrounds to identify the real-world problems begging for a solution. Simply put, startups like Pigeonly are shattering expectations of what the market demands.</i></p>
<p>So what's the - or even <i>a</i> - solution? We need to be more conscious about the ways we approach children, middle-schoolers, high-schoolers, people of all ages regarding their capabilities in different areas. Telling someone they're not capable of something over and over, especially from a young age, could become self-reinforcing. Additionally, those who resist the diversification of the tech world need to think about why they feel that way and consider the benefits of having a greater pool of minds and creativity to draw from for innovation, as Kapor writes. Programs that welcome minorities and women into these industries are <a class="postlink" href="http://tech.co/white-house-champions-for-change-2013-07">already being created</a>, and I think they're a great step into showing these people that no, these fields are not off-limits to them and yes, they <i>can</i> do it. Unpacking entire systems of prejudice and stereotypes is no simple task but by thoughtful self-examination - and by looking outside of our experiences instead of absolving ourselves of responsibility just because we've had opportunities - I think we can start to change this problem in the tech world for the better.</p>